.TH toilet 1 "2006-11-10" "libcaca"
.SH NAME
TOIlet \- display large colourful characters
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B toilet
[
.B \-htv
] [
.B \-d
.I fontdirectory
]
.PD 0
.IP
.PD
[
.B \-f
.I fontfile
] [
.B \-F
.I filter
] [
.B \-w
.I outputwidth
]
.PD 0
.IP
.PD
[
.B \-I
.I infocode
] [
.B \-E
.I format
] [
.I message
]
.RI
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B TOIlet
prints text using large characters made of smaller characters. It is similar
in many ways to
.B FIGlet
with additional features such as Unicode handling, colour fonts, filters
and various export formats.
.RI
.SH USAGE
.B TOIlet
either reads its input from the command line or from the standard input.
.RI
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-f, \-\-font <name>
Use the given font instead of the default value. Fonts are
.B .flf
or
.B .tlf
files stored in the
.B /usr/share/figlet
directory. There is also a special built-in font called
.I term
that serves as a fallback if no font is available.
.TP
.B \-d, \-\-directory <dir>
Specify the directory in which to look for fonts. The default value is set
at build time and usually defaults to
.B /usr/share/figlet.
.TP
.B \-w, \-\-width <width>
Set the output width. By default,
.B TOIlet
will wrap its output at 80 character columns.
.TP
.B \-t, \-\-termwidth
Set the output width to the terminal width.
.TP
.B \-F, \-\-filter <filters>
.PD 0
.TP
.B \-F, \-\-filter list
.TP
.B \-\-gay, \-\-metal
.PD
Specify a list of filters to be applied to the output.
.I <filters>
is a colon-separated list of filters such as
.I crop:rotate:gay
and the special argument
.I list
outputs a list of available filters.

.B \-\-gay
and
.B \-\-metal
are shortcuts to commonly used filters that are guaranteed to exist. Several
.B \-F
flags can also be specified on the command line, in which case filters will
be applied in order of appearance.
.TP
.B \-E, \-\-export <format>
.PD 0
.TP
.B \-E, \-\-export list
.TP
.B \-\-irc, \-\-html
.PD
Specify the output format. By default,
.B TOIlet
will output UTF-8 text using ANSI colour codes suitable for most terminals
such as XTerm or rxvt.
.I <format>
is the name of the export format as recognised by libcucul. The special
argument
.I list
outputs a list of available export formats.

.B \-\-irc
and
.B \-\-html
are shortcuts to commonly used export formats that are guaranteed to exist.
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Display a short help message and exit.
.TP
.B \-I, \-\-infocode <code>
Print a
.B FIGlet
infocode. This flag is only here for
.B FIGlet
compatibility, see the
.B figlet
manpage for more information about it.
.TP
.B \-v, \-\-version
Output version information and exit.
.RI
.SH EXAMPLES
toilet Hello World

toilet Hello | toilet

tail -f /var/log/messages | toilet -f term --gay
.RI
.SH BUGS
.B FIGlet
compatibility is not complete yet.
.RI
.SH AUTHOR
.B TOIlet
and this manual page were written by Sam Hocevar <sam@zoy.org>. There is a
webpage available at http://libcaca.zoy.org/toilet.html
.SH SEE ALSO
figlet(6)
